I need to preface this video with one
note I've only used Apple Vision Pro
once months ago at WWDC so a lot of the
conversation I'm about to have stems
from the more recent reviews and
unboxings okay if I ask you to visualize
Apple's Vision Pro in your mind just
like picture it what are the features
that materialize like what are the
things that you remember the most about
it I would say for most people the two
big things are the solo knit band like
the strap and then the screen on the
front where you can see the eyes of the
user I feel like those two features are
the most iconic features of the Apple
Vision Pro and I have so many thoughts
about these two things okay first let's
start off with the straps so when I got
to try it that was the strap that we
used uh the solo knit band and it's the
strap that you see in all the marketing
material the website the commercials a
lot of the reviews like the reviewers
are using them that's the strap it's
very cool looking and it's arguably the
most interesting strap we've ever seen
from an AR or VR headset from any
company the thing is it's not a
particularly functional strap I mean
this headset is over 600 G and from all
the reports we've seen that single band
is not particularly comfortable for
extended wear the other strap that
double band is where it's at it's
significantly more comfortable I mean
when Marquez first tried it this was his
reaction in the back well that's so much
more well distributed and I happen to
adjust it pretty close to my head that
is going to be much easier to wear for
longer but I think it's immediately a
better fit it's more comfortable wow
those are marquez's words and I think
that was literally the first time he put
it on his head now the problem with that
second strap or the double strap version
is that well there's a couple things one
you now have a strap that runs over your
head and it can squash certain
hairstyles down but two it just doesn't
look nearly as cool it the actual strap
system looks super plain and just it's
not a particularly Apple looking strap
system now if you look at any headset
before like this is the meta Quest 3
it's a super lame strap system it's
nothing special to even look at those
double straps are boring and if you're
apple and you're launching a new product
category it has to look awesome and it's
not just the product the people using it
also have to look awesome in your
commercials you can't have people with
flattened hair it's got to look like
something that's never been done before
never been seen before and that is what
the solo knit band does really well I
can only imagine the number of
iterations that they tried to like
retool and rebuild that single strap
system to make make it actually viable
for long-term wear but you can't beat
physics right single strap from what
we've seen it's comfortable for like 30
maybe 40 minutes and then you get
fatigue on the head because it's got to
clamp so tight and it's just the
distribution of that weight is not ideal
on a single strap it's enough time to
kind of demo the product or just play
with it but if you're going to use that
$3,500 machine for the spatial Computing
experience that Apple's trying to pitch
here Comfort is super important and the
way to get Comfort is that ugly ass
double strap system that flattens your
hair and that is why Apple includes that
double Loop band right in the Box it's
not some optional accessory that you
have to buy I mean they would love to
sell your accessories that's what Apple
does but in this case I think they
recognize that in terms of actual
usability of this device you do need the
double strap system but that single Loop
that uh solo knit band it's a beautiful
marketing tool now the other thing I
want to talk about is the screen and I
think this is the second most iconic
feature of Apple Vision Pro that
front-facing screen looks really cool
now I said in my initial impressions of
the Vision Pro that I felt like that
front-facing screen was not good in the
sense that it added weight it adds cost
it makes it more fragile it goes through
batteries quicker I still stand by all
of that because this product the Apple
Vision Pro when the the user who's using
it they're not getting anything out of
that front screen it's entirely for the
other people that might be interacting
with you like if someone comes in the
room they want to have an interaction
with you it's a more natural interaction
action with someone when you can see
their eyes and that's primarily the main
benefit of it all but when you look at
the product right now when you see the
eyes like they don't look particularly
good at least not to me uh I do think
that there's room for improvement in
terms of how they're capturing that
image and stuff but you also rarely see
the user's eyes it's often that purple
swirly Haze that indicates that the
person is busy using the device so I
look at these two features these iconic
features the solo knit band and the the
purple swirly front screen it's like
these are very neat looking things but
both of these features or
characteristics they're often not even
going to be used by people who purchase
Vision Pro like it's it's strange that
the two most iconic features of this
product are things that aren't even part
of the main user experience for the
users and so I thought okay Apple must
be highly aware of this right they built
this thing over the course of years so
why is this even in here and I thought
and thought okay I imagined an
alternative product like Imagine The
Vision Pro didn't have that super cool
solo knit band and it didn't have the
front screen it was just like a very
plain Vision Pro like developers kit now
I imagine that product would be cheaper
than the current Vision Pro and it could
have better battery life because there's
no screen uh it might be more
comfortable cuz it's lighter and it's
got the double strap system but that
product would look just like every other
headset out there it would not be
something Apple could Market it would it
just wouldn't be a product they would
sell despite it being arguably a better
first generation product for more people
right but that would be an unsellable
unmarketable product for apple and when
I realized that I think I see what
they're actually doing with Vision Pro
so obviously there's a cold conversation
of like this is a first gen product and
they're trying to get this out to the
public into people's hands and so the
developers can build it so the ecosystem
can grow sure but there's another part
of it I think what they're doing with
this product is that they're making
headsets socially acceptable and the way
they do it is by making these Ultra
iconic Ultra memorable visual components
of this thing so that when you see it on
the street you recognize you're like
okay that's Apple's Vision Pro
so here let's hear me out here okay if
you think about Apple as a company right
now I would say that they're not
innovators right now they haven't been
for years in the sense that they don't
or they haven't in years come out with a
product that is completely brand new
that no one else has ever done what
they're good at what they're arguably
the best at is taking a product that
other companies have done or tried but
they take it they tweak it and tune it
and then package it into a form factor
that's very usable and also very
desirable for the normal consumer and
that is Apple's superpower so if you
think back to the airpods before Apple's
airpods came out there were lots of
companies that were making wireless
earbuds but they were never popular but
then Apple made their airpods like
obviously they killed the headphone jack
and everyone else did the same but ever
since they launched those Q-tip things
like right from the rib people are like
that looks so stupid those actually look
like Q-tips sticking out of your ear but
look where we are now we're in a world
where the Q-tips are not just socially
accepted but they're desirable amongst a
lot of young kids and it's like that is
what apple is really good at and also
the Apple watch if you think about smart
watches before Apple watch came out
there were tons of companies making
smart watches but it was like socially
cringy to wear a smart watch can you
imagine going on a date in like 2010 and
be like hey I'm going to put on my
SmartWatch and go out and to meet this
person no way you'd be you'd have to be
really confident in yourself to do that
but now smart watches are everywhere and
they are again socially accepted and in
some places socially desirable and I
think the way they did again they did it
through like a design right this is a
squared face everyone was making round
SmartWatches they went Square because
they wanted to do the appway and I think
they're doing the exact same thing with
the Vision Pro but they had to make it
distinctly different from everybody
else's headset and they had to make it
look cool because that is I think the
ultimate goal of this first iteration of
Vision Pro because even if it's an
amazing piece of Hardware which it is
but if it didn't look cool if it wasn't
desirable Apple like that's just not the
apple way so I think I ultimately think
that this product Vision Pro or just
whatever this product category evolves
into I think it will be a success for
them I think it's just like a it's the
same kind of trajectory they've had with
all of their products that trajectory of
success where it comes out and the key
in the is not to make it the best
product it might be but that's not the
most important thing for them it's to
make it socially acceptable and socially
desirable so that now like right now if
you saw someone wearing like a meta
Quest 3 on the head on like an airplane
it be like what is this guy doing right
but I think in a few years time I think
there will be headsets on air on flights
I think people will be wearing Vision
pros and other headsets and I think a
lot of it will have stemmed from the
existence of Apple's Vision Pro and the
way that they marketed the whole thing
with like really iconic design language
and stuff but there you have it those
are some of my thoughts on Vision
Pro